README.md, before:

## DOCKER - DJANGO - MYSQL

### OVERVIEW

This repo enables one to bring up two containers with docker compose: a web server running Django, and a database server running MySQL. The configuration is basic, intended to get a simple development environment stood up quickly. This is not intended to deploy into a production environment.


### PREREQUISITES

You must have _Docker_ and _docker compose_ installed in order for this to work.


### IINITIAL SETUP INSTRUCTIONS

+ Create an empty directory on your local computer, cd into it, and clone this repo.
+ Create a _.env_ file at the root where the docker-compose.yml file is.
+ Create another _.env_ file at ./web/code/app/app where the settings.py file is.
+ Populate both .env files with your secrets and other parameters. See the _sample.env_ at each location for reference.

Make sure you're still in the project root directory. Build the images and run the containers with:

> docker compose up -d --build

Make sure the containers are running with:

> docker ps

There should be two containers, one called 'app-web' and the other called 'app-db.' The web server waits 10 seconds before starting the Django webserver, so as to let the MySQL database(s) initialize.

Note that a new folder will be created:

+ ./db/mysql

This folder is mounted to the 'app-db' container as a volume, and stores the MySQL database files.


### NEXT STEPS - DJANGO

Get a shell in the webserver container and create the django superuser:

> docker exec -it app-web bash  
> python /code/app/manage.py createsuperuser

The website code is in the ./web/code directory, which gets mounted to the 'app-web' container at /code. Work with your templates, views, urls, etc. within there.

Lastly, just tweak the .env files and settings.py as you see fit, and get to building your website.

Commit message:

Updated notes on the .gitignore file.

README.md, after:

## DOCKER - DJANGO - MYSQL

### OVERVIEW

This repo enables one to bring up two containers with docker compose: a web server running Django, and a database server running MySQL. The configuration is basic, intended to get a simple development environment stood up quickly. This is not intended to deploy into a production environment.


### PREREQUISITES

You must have _Docker_ and _docker compose_ installed in order for this to work.


### IINITIAL SETUP INSTRUCTIONS

+ Create an empty directory on your local computer, cd into it, and clone this repo.
+ Create a _.env_ file at the root where the docker-compose.yml file is.
+ Create another _.env_ file at ./web/code/app/app where the settings.py file is.
+ Populate both .env files with your secrets and other parameters. See the _sample.env_ at each location for reference.

_Note: The .env files are untracked via the .gitignore file._

Make sure you're still in the project root directory. Build the images and run the containers with:

> docker compose up -d --build

Make sure the containers are running with:

> docker ps

There should be two containers, one called 'app-web' and the other called 'app-db.' The web server waits 10 seconds before starting the Django webserver, so as to let the MySQL database(s) initialize.

Note that a new directory will be created:

+ ./db/mysql

This directory is mounted to the 'app-db' container as a volume, and stores the MySQL database files. It is untracked via the .gitignore file.


### NEXT STEPS - DJANGO

Get a shell in the webserver container and create the django superuser:

> docker exec -it app-web bash  
> python /code/app/manage.py createsuperuser

The website code is in the ./web/code directory, which gets mounted to the 'app-web' container at /code. Work with your templates, views, urls, etc. within there.

Lastly, just tweak the .env files and settings.py as you see fit, and get to building your website.
